[CHIMES RINGING]
[NEW AGE MUSIC]
>>SUE MORTER: For over
20 years, Dr. Ed Group
and his Global Healing Center
provides the highest quality
natural health
information and guidelines
for those looking for
the root cause of disease
and to detox their bodies
and their environments.
Dr. Ed, welcome to the show.
>>EDWARD GROUP: Thank you
so much for having me on.
>>SUE: It is a great
pleasure to have you.
Tell us a little
bit about how you
got into natural health care
and where this began for you.
>>GROUP: It's a strange story.
I was actually really wanting
to become a heart surgeon,
believe it or not.
And it just so happens,
the way the universe works,
I was at a dinner one night.
And there was a guy there
talking about natural medicine.
Well, you know, leading up
to me going into or applying
to medical school, of
course I'd been studying
the allopathic methods,
anatomy, physiology,
and all these things.
And in my mind, natural
medicine didn't even exist.
It was just allopathic medicine.
And this guy starts talking
about natural cures for cancer
and natural cures for disease.
And I'm thinking to myself,
what is this guy talking about?
He's just a quack.
And then he starts saying
that he's putting together
a research team.
And he starts asking
me questions like,
"Well, have you looked
into the background
of pharmaceutical drugs?
Have you determined
and gone to the library
or done any research
to see if they actually
do any good in the body?"
And he starts asking
me these questions.
So of course, my
mind is curious.
And I'm like, no, not really.
So after that dinner, I actually
went and started studying
and realized--
kind of had a transformation
or one of those aha moments,
when it was just
like, oh my gosh.
I started looking at
pharmaceutical medications
and seeing that this doesn't
do any good for the body.
This is just treating
the symptoms of disease.
So I went back to him,
and I said, "Teach me
everything you know."
And at the time, he
was putting together
a team which, in his
definition, was to find
the root cause of disease.
But really, he was
focusing on cancer as well.
He wanted to work with and
evaluate the different methods
that were currently available--
and this was in the mid-'90s--
that doctors were using to
treat cancer successfully using
natural methods.
And that was right during the
time when MD Anderson and some
of the cancer centers
were putting together
that complementary
alternative medicine program.
At that time, there
was no internet.
So there wasn't
research you could do.
There was only one
meeting, and it was kind
of underground at the time.
I mean, you kind of had
to know the right people
or know where to go to
find out information,
which was the Cancer Control
Society in California.
And so we started gathering
as much data as we possibly
could and started
down that road of,
let's see if we can determine
the root cause of disease
and met with the
doctors down in Mexico
at the Cancer Control
Society Convention
and started learning
as much as we could,
evaluating what protocols
these doctors were using,
evaluating what they have
found was the root cause,
evaluating what kind
of treatment programs
they were using.
And one thing led to another.
And so we ended up on at least
a one-year, very intense journey
into the root cause of disease.
And still today,
you know, there's
so much information out
there that we continue
to find beneficial when it comes
to treating the body, mind,
and soul.
>>SUE: Yes, this holistic
approach is definitely
where we are at today.
I have to say, Ed, this
is an amazing thing for me
to be speaking with you.
I have only ever had natural
health care in my own life.
I've never gone to the
doctor and had an antibiotic
to heal some ailment
that I was experiencing.
And so I completely
understand where
you're coming from with this
idea of getting to the root
cause.
But I would love for you to say
a little bit more about that.
This message of yours
has been decades old now.
You're in this idea that
we need to get to the cause
and not treat the symptom
and not load the body up
with a bunch of
pharmaceuticals in order
to have some healing happen.
So can you just say
a little bit more
about what this idea
of the root cause
is for our viewers
that might not
be as acclimated to this idea
as you and I are in this moment?
>>GROUP: Yes, absolutely.
So the first thing
we wanted to do
was to look at why
people were sick.
And talking to
doctors, we evaluated
what they were finding
on blood work, what
they were finding
by just talking
to the individual patient.
A lot of times, you can just
get so much information just
by speaking to the individual.
But what we found was
all disease or the root
cause of all disease was
a combination of toxins.
We looked at-- we broke
it down into categories.
We found that there's a certain
level of toxins in the air
that we breathe, because we're
taking thousands of breaths--
30,000 breaths--
every single day.
Most people live
in an environment
where they're breathing
toxic indoor air.
They're breathing
toxic outdoor air.
And air can contain many, many
different forms of toxins.
What we were looking
at was, how are people
being exposed to any type
of disease-causing agent?
So we looked at the air first.
And we found that
most people that
had any type of
disease or condition
were exposed to some form
of chemicals in the air.
Then we looked at the food
that they were eating.
So we broke it down into
two categories, basically--
the internal environment
and the external environment
that people were exposed to.
Air would be external,
food would be internal.
And then we looked at the
genetically modified foods,
the processed foods,
the microwaved foods,
all of the
preservatives in foods.
And we found that most of
the foods were contaminated.
Then we looked at water,
which is the number one
substance that we have.
I mean, all living
things are composed
of at least 80% water,
including the earth and plants
and everything.
So water was a big
component that we looked at.
And we found that the toxins
in the water supplies,
whether it's fluoride,
bromine, chlorine,
prescription drug residue,
endocrine-disrupting chemicals,
I mean, all of these things,
heavy metals in the water
supply, the fracking, which
was even creating natural gases
in the water supply--
so these were contributing
to the toxic load in people.
And then we looked at
the emotional toxic load
as well, because that was a
very important aspect of it,
as far as if someone's
in a state of stress
or if someone's in a state
of anger or fear or jealousy
or resentment, those
contributed to the toxic load.
And then the harmful
organisms was the other thing
that we looked at which
contributed and was associated
with not only cancer, but
with every single disease
we looked at.
And call it parasites or call it
harmful organisms, any organism
that lives off of a
host mechanism that
does the host mechanism bad.
And we identified and looked at
Royal Raymond Rife's research.
And we looked at multiple
areas of research,
including talking to the
physicians that were treating
a lot of these individuals.
And they always
found high levels
of fungus, mold,
bacteria, viruses, worms,
all of these
different components.
So then we said,
well, let's add up,
theoretically, the amount of
chemicals or toxins somebody
might be taking in
through the air every day.
Let's add up, let's say,
250,000 through the air,
250,000 through the food,
250,000 through the water,
2,050 from the
harmful organisms,
which these organisms
secrete isopropyl alcohol,
formaldehyde, phenol,
formalin, which
continually create an acid
environment inside the body.
And then let's look at
the emotional toxicity
and how many toxins
that that may cause.
Another category we
looked at was trauma.
Like if someone had
been in an accident,
they're going to have
an electric blockage.
But ultimately,
all of it came back
to looking at how this affects
the cell on a cellular level,
because all we are is
100 trillion cells.
And each cell breathes
like we breathe, goes
to the bathroom, respirates,
and everything else.
So what we found was
the accumulation of all
of these chemicals
and all these toxins,
if you really break it
down, was an interference
of this cellular
energetic pathway.
And it stopped the cells
from communicating.
For example, looking
at Masaru Emoto's work,
when you have the
structured form of water,
and then you have, let's
say, a lot of these chemicals
and toxins that are
getting inside the cell
or they're getting in the
extracellular fluid, which
is basically water, it's
causing a miscommunication
or an interference between
the energetic communication
between the cells
and the antenna
on the cells, which Bruce
Lipton's research really
came into play with
the cell membrane
being the brain of the cell
and genes being controlled
by our outside
environment and not
necessarily the way
medical practitioners
or medical science says that
the genes control the organism.
So our next stage
was, well, if someone
is taking in all
of these chemicals
and toxins on a
regular basis, don't we
normally have the means to
get rid of all these things?
And so we said, OK, well, let's
look at the elimination routes
that the body has.
And we looked at the four--
five-- elimination routes,
basically.
Men have four, and
women have five.
You have respiration.
You're going to respirate
the chemicals and toxins out.
You're going to
sweat the toxins out.
urinate the toxins out.
You're going to
defecate the toxins out.
And women have their
menstrual cycles.
So we knew that there was
an accumulation of all
these things that was
basically suppressing
cellular communication and
also suppressing the body's
own self-healing mechanism,
'cause we also knew
that the body is the strongest.
The body has the ability to
heal any disease by itself.
It's just being suppressed
by all these things.
So when we looked at
the elimination routes,
and we said, OK, let's
look at respiration--
so if the body's taking in,
let's say, a million chemicals
and toxins on a daily
basis, how many of those
are actually being
respirated out?
Well, the majority of the
people that we studied
that had any type of disease
weren't doing regular exercise
or weren't doing aerobic
exercise, where they were
increasing their respiration.
Also, sweating--
those individuals
weren't sweating enough as well.
So we found that probably 50%
of those two elimination routes
were blocked in people with
any type of negative health
condition.
Then we looked at urination.
And we found that those
individuals drank very, very
little water,
which we know today
that probably 95% of the
population on the planet
is massively dehydrated,
because nobody
likes to drink water anymore.
So that elimination
route was blocked.
Then we looked at the
defecation elimination route.
And we found that
most people were
having one bowel movement a day
or one bowel movement a week,
one bowel movement
every third day.
So we found that that
elimination route was blocked.
So everything was leading up
to this root cause of disease
at that point in time,
saying, oh, well,
if all these toxins are
coming in, and none of them
are able to get out of the body
because all the elimination
routes are blocked, where
are they going to go?
And that would initiate looking
at all the different types
of diseases.
Let's say heart disease.
A lot of the toxins
and chemicals
are going to be deposited
in the heart tissue.
Arthritis is going to be
deposited in the joints.
Diabetes are going
to be deposited
in the islet of
Langerhans cells.
And what happens is they
coat the cell membranes.
A lot of these toxins coat the
cell membranes, and the cells
lose their communication.
The gates and channels
malfunction in the cells.
And so the cells aren't take
in all the necessary things
that they might need to
take in to produce insulin.
And so we realize that, number
one, all of these chemicals
and toxins that are coming in.
Then we realized all of
the elimination routes
were blocked or
partially blocked.
And then we said,
well, let's look
at how all these
chemicals and toxins are
getting into the body.
So we looked at breathing.
And we found that probably
only about 5% of the toxins
came in through
breathing, because you
have mucous membranes
that catch a lot of them.
And then they drain
down into your stomach,
and then you're able to
eliminate them properly.
So then we looked at the mouth.
And then we found that
probably about 95%
of the chemicals and toxins
that are entering your body
are going to enter through
the digestive tract.
And so that's what led
us to the next phase of,
well, if the majority of
these chemicals and toxins
are coming in through the gut,
let's start looking at the gut
and seeing the effects of
how this is contributing
to the root cause of disease
and how these chemicals
and toxins are
acting or not acting
or how they're damaging the gut.
Because we knew that they had
to be damaging the gut, because
in order to start
creating all the diseases,
they had to leak through the
gut to get into the bloodstream.
>>SUE: Mm.
That's a mouthful.
Fantastic.
So you speak about
this external series
of toxins that are mutating
or clouding, covering,
cloaking our ability to get the
receptivity from the cell wall,
as Bruce Lipton's research is
sharing with us in epigenetics,
that would then
translate information
into the inner realm of the cell
and tell the cell what to do.
And you also speak
about Emoto's work,
where we're obviously observing
a transition between even
thoughts that can change the
shape of the water, the impact
of our own physiology.
So between this internal and
external environmental crisis
that could be happening
based upon our victimization
in the world, the
external context
being too strong for
us, overwhelming for us,
our own inability to process
our emotional states,
et cetera creating a shift in
our internal environment, which
do you feel is more important?
Is it the outer world
is stronger than us?
Because we're highly
adaptive creatures, you know?
We're able to
respond to the world.
Is it is the outer world
that is bigger than us, that
is taking us out of the game?
Or is it our internal
workings that you
feel are a primary cause here?
Where is the
underlying, root cause
of our inability to keep
functioning the way we're
built to be functioning?
>>GROUP: I think
it's a combination.
But everybody's
different as well.
It depends on the environment
in which you live.
I think that the
external environment
with the electromagnetic
radiation that we're bombarded
with every single day And
Masaru Emoto, before he died,
he said that one of the
most damaging things
that he ever saw that would
not translate back to a crystal
when he put the water
in front of a TV
set when he did his research
was electromagnetic frequencies,
harmful electromagnetic
frequencies.
So I think that, again,
since we're mostly water,
I think water has a lot
to do with the toxicity
level and the electromagnetics
and our ability
to communicate and detoxify.
Because like I
said, ultimately, it
goes down to the energetics and
the electromagnetic frequencies
of the cell.
So I think with all the
negativity-- and interesting
you asked that, because we
had a case where we were
kind of challenged on that.
You know, we originally came out
with our root cause of disease
theory about 21 years ago.
And when Lance Armstrong
ended up getting cancer,
we had a lot of people
come back to us and say,
"Your theory is wrong, because
Lance Armstrong is healthy.
He's not sick.
And how could he be this
athlete and eat healthy?
And so everything
you're saying is wrong."
He's got testicular cancer now.
And that was before we
really made-- that was
when Louise Hay was coming out.
And that was when
Bernie Siegel was
doing his work with the
mind and the thoughts
and how powerful that is.
And if you ask me
how powerful that is,
I think it's more
powerful than anything.
And you know, I don't
think people know
how to activate it as much yet.
And I think meditation
is incredible,
and I thought understanding
the energetics of the body
is where we're heading.
But people are taking
those baby steps,
and it's a little bit
easier for them now, too.
But I also think in
order to activate that,
that you can really
speed the process up
by detoxifying and changing
your environment internally
and externally as
well as detoxifying.
But I think that when
we had that backlash,
we looked for somebody that
was doing everything wrong,
because we were
saying, you know,
this is why you have disease.
And we found a guy that was
eating donuts all day long,
had a sedentary lifestyle,
hadn't exercised,
was drinking a fifth of
alcohol every single day,
the worst possible patient
you could have imagined.
He was on multiple
prescription medications,
didn't drink any water.
I mean, this guy had a
clean bill of health.
So we were kind
of thinking, maybe
we're wrong with this theory.
And we went and we analyzed
him for, like, a month.
We went into his house.
He was smoking, like, four
packs of cigarettes a day.
The walls were
yellow in his house.
It was just, I mean, it
was a disease-ridden area.
And one of the things--
the only conclusion
that we could come
to after about
a month of looking at this
guy was how happy he was.
This guy was a jolly old guy.
He was super happy with himself.
He had no stress.
He was laughing all day
long, because the only thing
he would watch on
TV on his couch
was stuff that made him laugh.
Like, he would watch "America's
Funniest Home Videos."
He would watch comedians
or all these comedy shows.
And we looked and we
analyzed everything.
And at that point,
we knew that we
were missing a big component
of this whole healing process.
And that's when we added that
in as a major root cause.
Probably one of the heaviest
root causes to disease
is emotional stress related,
because stress can almost
override electrically
everything that you're
trying to do good in the body.
So that has to be a major
component with counseling,
and you have to detoxify
your emotions as well.
So from that point
on, we started
teaching people and even through
the detoxification process,
which we learned detoxifying
and healing the gut first,
detoxifying and
healing the liver next.
Those are very important stages
that you would go through.
Detoxifying the harmful
organisms next, which we know
has a major role to play in
emotional disorders, as well
as all this depression,
anxiety, and all these things
that kids are
dealing with today,
as well as chemicals and heavy
metals going up into the brain.
And same thing-- it's a
misfiring of information.
There's too many chemicals and
toxins up in the brain area.
And after we clean the harmful
organisms out of the body,
then the last stage is the
chemicals and heavy metals.
But during that period
of time, people also
need to understand
how to keep themself
in a parasympathetic state.
I feel that the
majority of people
these days live in a sympathetic
state, a fight or flight state.
And talking about
digestion, if you're
eating while watching
TV, if you're
eating while reading
some negative news,
if you're eating while
listening to music,
if you're eating at your desk
in front of your computer,
most likely, you're going to
be in a sympathetic state.
And that's a huge scenario
that we found with people
with gut issues.
Because as all these
chemicals and toxins
start coming into the
gut, and those individuals
are in a sympathetic state,
the digestive process
completely comes to a halt.
And so what we noticed was
people that were eating meal
after meal after
meal, these meals
would stay undigested
in their systems
for 72 hours, 100 hours.
And the proteins were
turning putrefactive.
The carbohydrates
were fermenting.
The fats were turning rancid.
And that ended up being
a whole new chemical
slew that was brewing
inside the intestinal tract.
>>SUE: So you're
saying that there
are a few roots to the cause,
but that the root cause is
ultimately the power of
the mind and the power
to resolve our own emotional
state so that our system can
move out of fight or flight and
into a parasympathetic dominant
so that it can be digesting
and filtering and cleansing
and healing, et cetera.
And yes, we're smart
to eliminate the toxins
from our environment.
But we could go and do that.
And if we're doing it out of
anger or frustration or fear,
we're actually not going to
create the healing environment
within that we're attempting to
do if we're trying to eliminate
all these external things
from a state of anything
other than joy or harmony
or peace or laughter,
as you were sharing.
Is this the key?
>>GROUP: I think
a big part of this
is another thing
that we learned,
was people need to understand
why they're sick to begin with.
When we had our clinic,
and people would come in,
and they had already been seen
by 10, 15 different doctors
for 10 or 15 years.
And they would come sit
down and say, "Well,
what are you going to do for
me that nobody else did?"
And so we would just sit
there and say, "Well,
can you tell me why
you have cancer?
Let's just start off
by you explaining to me
why you have cancer or
why you have heart disease
or why you have diabetes."
>>SUE: Fantastic question.
>>GROUP: And they
would say, "Well, I
don't know why I have cancer
or diabetes or heart disease."
And we would say,
"Well, don't you
think that you need to
understand why you have
the disease in order to
understand and fully accept
how to get rid of the disease?"
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>GROUP: You know, if I'm
going to rewire my house,
I'm going to study electricity.
I'm not just going to go, you
know, stick a bunch of wires
everywhere.
>>SUE: Right.
>>GROUP: And then the
next thing-- and then,
you know, this light
would come on inside.
It was like, no one's ever
explain that to me before.
And you know, part of
the healing process
starts in the first
couple hours when
you're with a patient, because
then we would say after that,
"Well, let me ask
you another question.
What makes you happy?
What do you do for fun?"
And they would all just
sit there, and most of them
would start crying.
And they would just
say, "I don't know.
I don't know what
makes me happy.
I don't know what I do for fun."
>>SUE: They've lost touch.
>>GROUP: When's the last
time you've had fun,
or when's the last
time you were happy?
You know, health
equals self-confidence,
which equals success.
When's the last time you
looked yourself in the mirror
and said, "I feel so good today.
I'm going to take on the world.
I am super happy"?
We would ask them that.
And they would say, "Probably
when I was, like, 14, 15."
And here they are,
like, 45 years old.
>>SUE: Decades.
>>GROUP: And they're
decades later,
and they've been
unhappy with themself.
They haven't loved themself.
And so then we would
say, "I tell you
what I'm going to do that
none of the other doctors
have done for you.
First of all, a doctor should
be a teacher first, not
a prescriber.
My job is to teach you
how to heal yourself.
My job is to teach you how
to reactivate your body's
self-healing mechanism.
So first off,
we're going to talk
about why you have the
disease that you have today."
And that's when we start
going into the toxins and all
the other stuff and start
explaining to them about
and start talking to them
about their emotions and all
that stuff as well.
And then what we would do, like
the old-school doctors would
do years ago, is they would
actually go to their house.
I can't tell you how many
things we've discovered
by going to patients' homes.
They will tell you that
they're eating healthy.
They will tell you that they
don't have any chemicals
and toxins in their home.
They will tell you that their
bedroom is a nice sanctuary
that they can sleep in.
>>SUE: Blinders.
>>GROUP: And we
would go in there,
and we would look up and see
that their air conditioning
vents were black, full of mold.
We would go into their kitchen
and just completely see
all these chemical
cleaning products.
You know, their water
would be contaminated.
We would test their water.
All their cookware
would be toxic.
And their bedroom would
be-- one of the first things
that we would do when we would
go into someone's house is work
on their bedroom and get them
to be able to sleep eight
hours a night at least
in a very dark room,
in a very healing
oasis in their room.
They would have memory
foam mattresses.
They would have
pillows that weighed,
like, 15 pounds,
full of dust mites.
And their air quality would
be horrible in their room.
We'd have to put
air purification
systems in their ceiling.
>>SUE: I'm feeling
worse already.
[BOTH LAUGH]
>>GROUP: So I mean, you
know-- but they would go
through that process with us.
And as they would
understand, we would explain.
And it would literally
transform their life,
because that's
what it was about,
them understanding the reason
why they're in the situation
that they're in and then
helping them transition
to a more healthy lifestyle.
And of course, never just, you
know, doing everything at once,
you know?
We would always
explain, like, picture
a long staircase of health
going all the way up to the sky.
And you know, you have to
live by the-- you know,
if you can live by the 80-20
rule, you're doing great.
As a matter of fact,
most people in society
live by the 10-90
rule right now.
They do 90% of stuff
wrong and 10% right.
So even if you can get over
that hump a little bit,
you're still doing
really, really good.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>GROUP: But we would say
it's baby steps, you know?
If you get a water
purification system,
you just climbed 500 steps
up the stairs to hell.
>>SUE: One step at a time.
>>GROUP: And as long as you're
doing one step at a time--
next time you go
to the store, buy
Himalayan crystal salt instead
of the regular toxic salt.
You know, next time you're going
to go buy food for your family,
go get organic food.
And you know, then you
took another 500 steps up.
And we have lists
of all of the things
that we identified, from
personal care products to air
fresheners to sunscreens to--
I mean, basically
everything that someone
would do from the
time that they wake up
all the way until the
time that they go to bed.
And we would even go
to their office as well
and go check out the
things in their office
and see what they're
exposed to, if they
are exposed to
different chemicals
in the workplace, et cetera.
But by cleaning all
that up and then
working with them
over a period of time
and then detoxifying
them correctly,
that's how we would
get such good results
and positive results.
>>SUE: So are you
educating other doctors
in this same arena?
I mean, this has been a
project of my life as well.
And I'm just really
curious how you
are seeing this unfold in the
traditional medical practices,
et cetera.
And here's why.
Patients are on medications
because they've been going
to the traditional doctor.
They're doing what they're
doing with what they've
been trained to
do, what they think
they're supposed to be doing.
And now people are
waking up, and we're
having this kind
of a conversation
on a regular basis.
And so people are curious.
Well, then, does
that mean I shouldn't
be doing what I was doing?
Am I hurting myself?
Am I helping?
How do I get two steps ahead
without three steps back?
You know, where are we to begin?
How do people know
what to do when
they're trying to navigate their
traditional medical doctors'
advice, and now this rising
information about the power's
in our hands, that our internal
ability to process information
has everything to do
with our level of health?
And we've invented ourselves
out of a healthy environment
with all the electromagnetic
energies that
are surrounding us.
So what can you tell us
about where do we start?
How do we navigate?
How do we get our
feet on the ground?
>>GROUP: Yeah.
First of all, just waking
up and opening your mind
to think that maybe not
everything that you've
been taught is real.
As far as the doctors,
more and more of them
are opening up and
learning more and more,
because they've watched their
parents die in the system.
They've watched their
grandparents die in the system.
Some of these newer, younger
doctors that are still
coming up in the
system right now,
they're still not heavily
talking about this, obviously.
But you have right now
pharmaceutical companies
that are buying dietary
supplement companies left
and right.
They see that there's
a big organic movement.
They see that there's a big
health movement out there.
Unfortunately, it's still
not based on the root cause.
You know, even the naturopathic
schools, chiropractic schools,
that's where I'm trying
to get the information out
to teach the
individuals that healing
doesn't have to be hard, right?
It's like, we don't need 500
supplements in our cabinet.
I used to have 650 supplements
in my cabinet a long time ago.
I was taught-- naturopathic
school, chiropractic school--
OK, someone walks in with
a headache or whatever.
Here's the different herbs
that you can put them on.
You can put them on
white willow bark.
It's still treating the
symptoms, but not the root
cause.
>>SUE: Exactly.
It's healthier, but it's
still treating the symptoms.
>>GROUP: And it works
to a certain degree.
But I've always been
the kind of person
that's looked for simplicity in
how we can reactivate and teach
people how to
reactivate their body's
own self-healing mechanism
through the things
and the power that
the body actually
has, through water-only fasting
or through detoxification,
through changing lifestyle.
And because doctors
are now being
faced with more and more
questions from patients-- like,
patients are now going
into doctor's offices
with bags full of supplements.
And they're saying, "Doc, can I
take this with the medication?
Can I take this with the
medication you have me on?
Can I take this?"
And the doctors are being
forced to learn about it.
So I think that's
also a positive thing.
So I do think we're making
positive change as far
as education-wise, because
I think that everything
starts with education, like,
the proper type of education.
I think kids should be taught
from an early age about how
to listen to their body, how to
pay attention to the symptoms.
See, we're never even taught
that if we have a headache,
that we're supposed
to be thinking, well,
was that something that
I might have eaten,
or what did I do wrong?
Did I sleep wrong?
>>SUE: Or a way of thinking.
>>GROUP: Or a way of thinking
or anything like that.
We're taught, if
we have a headache,
we need to go take
some aspirin, or we
need to go take something to
take care of the headache.
Fever is a great
example of that.
How much has it been
ingrained into people
that as soon as your kids or
you start running a fever,
you need to reduce the fever?
It's the most
bizarre thing ever.
>>SUE: We shut it down.
>>GROUP: Like, my kid's
gotten up to 106.7 before.
When we were treating
cancer patients,
we were using hyperthermia,
where we would heat the cancer
cells up, and they
would die around 106,
still being used today.
Normal cells will die
somewhere around 107,
something like that degrees.
It's the natural process,
because bacteria, viruses,
and organisms will die
from 99 to 105, usually.
So why are we stopping the
normal, natural process
of the body to kill
off all the organisms
and then pop right out of it?
I mean, we're suppressing our
own natural, innate healing
ability.
>>SUE: That healing mechanism.
>>GROUP: The healing mechanism.
>>SUE: Can you speak--
I know you use those words
specifically, the healing
mechanism within the body.
Now can you just
speak right into that?
I know you're talking
about that right now.
But just to clarify
for people, you
know, what is it that
happens right there?
The body is trying
to heal itself.
And we're doing things
that are shutting down
its ability to do so.
Can you speak more about that?
>>GROUP: Yeah, the
self-healing mechanism
is the energy that your
body has to heal itself.
I'll give you the
best example that I
know about that was an example
from a researcher in the 1940s
and '50s named Arnold Ehret.
And what he determined
through studying
a lot of people
in his hygienic--
and he put people on fasting
and studied digestion
and studied different types of
diets, fruitarian diets, vegan
diets, all that stuff.
His conclusion was that
the biggest reduction
of energy that we have
from healing the body
is because we eat too much.
And he found that what
we should really be doing
is only eating one meal a day.
Now picture this.
This is kind of his philosophy
of how he describes this.
The body only has-- if you
calculate decay counts and all
that-- the body only
has enough energy--
and this is in a
perfect state, right?
This is not in a state of
stress, in a state of confusion
like most people are in today.
Your body only really
has enough energy
to break down one
big meal a day.
So if we're eating two or
three or four meals a day,
our body doesn't have
the energy reserves
to be able to break
down those meals,
because digestion takes the
most amount of our energy
than anything else.
I mean, our digestive
tract is 30 feet long.
If you spread it out, it's
the size of a tennis court.
And it consumes all of our
energy totally from the body.
So when we look at the
self-healing mechanism,
your body is going to have to
generate energy and take energy
to heal itself.
That's why the body
heals extremely fast
when you're fasting.
That's why animals,
when they get hurt
or they have a broken
bone, they lay down,
and they do dry fasting.
They don't eat or drink.
And their body heals within,
like, 72 hours, like bones
and everything like
that completely healed
so they can get up.
When you take the energy
away-- and the body
goes into autophagy when
you start fasting, too.
And this proves that eating is
one of the biggest detriments
to us having a healthy,
very strong immune system,
considering also that
USC came out with a study
and found that 72 hours
of water-only fasting
produced immune stem cells and
regenerated the immune system.
Now I've been studying
medicine for 25, 30 years.
I don't know anything that
can produce immune stem cells
and regenerate the immune
system in 72 hours.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>GROUP: So when we talk about
the self-healing mechanism,
it's allowing enough
energy for your body
to be able to focus on what
needs to be healed the most
and do it in a very
rapid way so it can heal
and move on and repair itself.
>>SUE: Yeah.
And so in this biggest
picture, what would you
say is the ultimate
secret to healing?
>>GROUP: The ultimate
secret to healing
would be for you
to keep your body
and your mind clean
on a regular basis,
to make sure that your
external environment is clean,
make sure your internal
environment is clean.
That means cleansing and healing
your bowel on a regular basis.
You know, that should be done
almost on a weekly basis.
And I'm not saying everybody
needs to be on a raw food diet.
I mean, everybody's diet
needs could be done.
I don't believe there's one
perfect diet for everybody
out there.
I do like the
intermittent fasting,
because it takes
one meal a day out.
Just taking one meal a day
from what you're eating
will boost your energy stores.
But the ultimate secret
to health, number one,
is understanding what
causes poor health.
Number two, what
we've determined
and what's worked
for the last 25 years
is cleansing the mind,
body, and soul, keeping
all of that cleansed
on a regular basis
through cleansing
and heal the gut,
the liver, cleansing the harmful
organisms out of the body,
cleansing the chemicals and
heavy metals out of the body,
and doing what you need to
do through deep breathing
exercises, let's say,
to take yourself out
of a sympathetic
state, put yourself
in a parasympathetic state,
and tons of meditation.
I'm a big believer
in meditation.
I was challenged
on that years ago,
I was talking about the
benefits of meditation.
Someone said, "Well, how
much do you meditate?"
I said, "Well, maybe a couple
minutes here and there."
So I did a whole year of working
up to 2 and 1/2 hours a day,
from 4:00 to 6:00 AM for
a whole year straight.
At the same time, I went on
a strictly raw food diet.
I wanted to do an
experiment on myself
to see how everything went.
The meditation completely
transformed me.
The raw food diet, I would say
that, from a social standpoint,
that kind of isolated me.
So I don't believe in
doing anything 100%
and giving up everything.
Again, I believe in the 80-20.
I believe you have to
give yourself some things.
The more you restrict yourself
from things sometimes,
the more you want them.
But now I've logged close to
7,000 hours of meditation.
I'm trying to get to
that 10,000 hour mark.
And every day, it's been
a vital part of my life.
And I feel that that can
transform people's lives as far
as the benefits of
meditation with stress relief
and balancing hormones
and all the other things.
>>SUE: Balancing mind,
body, spirit ultimately
is the key, right?
We have to land back
home for ourselves.
There's so much conflicting
information out there.
There's so much that
people are hearing
and wanting to know where
to start and where to begin.
I think that you're leading
us in a direction that
is helpful--
not to try to give up
everything all at once, 100%,
chuck this and only do this.
Because some people can't
eat raw foods right now
in their lives.
Other people can't seem to
imagine sitting and meditating
for two hours at a time.
But to take one step
at a time, to start
to wean some things away
and be present to themselves
and know what they
can tolerate, this
is basically what you're
offering up as guidance.
And I so appreciate
your come from being
comprehensive in
the way that it is.
This is what the awakening
humanity is certainly
ready to hear.
>>GROUP: Well, thank you.
>>SUE: We have someone here
who has worked with Dr. Group
to take back control
of their own health.
Loretta Lanphier had
stage III cancer.
But by following Dr.
Group's protocol,
she was able to heal herself.
Let's meet Loretta.
Hello, Loretta.
Are you there?
Can you hear us?
>>LORETTA LANPHIER: I can.
Can you hear me?
>>SUE: Sweet.
Yes, indeed.
So what can you share with
us about your experience
with Dr. Group?
>>LANPHIER: Well, I went
to Dr. Group back in 2001
for stage III colon cancer.
I had a diagnosis in
September of 2000.
I'd done one month of
chemotherapy, had surgery
to get the tumor,
and the chemotherapy
was just horrendous.
So we decided to find somebody
that could work alternatively,
a big step out of
the box for us.
But I would have done
anything at that point
not to have to do chemotherapy.
So we looked on the internet,
and Global Healing Center came
up, and we made an appointment.
And I had done some research.
And with Dr.
Group's appointment,
basically, he was just
reiterating everything
that I had read.
>>SUE: So did you
interrupt your chemotherapy
to go and see Dr. Group?
>>LANPHIER: Well, what
happened is they had me
on a regimen to where I did one
chemotherapy a week for four
weeks, had a week off, and
then I would start again.
They wanted me to do
six rounds of that.
I got to the fourth
treatment of the first round
and ended up in the hospital
with severe dehydration.
So I felt like the
chemotherapy would
get me far quicker
than the cancer would.
I mean, according to
them, I was cancer-free.
There was no tumor.
There was no metastasis.
So I didn't feel like
I was going to make it
by doing chemotherapy.
And so my husband actually
had been looking online.
I didn't know he had been.
But we decided to just go
and talk and just see what
there was out there to offer.
And Dr. Group was
good-- yeah, I think
he talked with us about an
hour and a half that day.
And when we left the office,
we got into the elevator.
And I told my husband,
I said, "I really
think this is where
I'm supposed to be."
Well, he was kind of hesitant,
mainly because people don't
save up for this kind of thing.
You know, it can be costly,
although Dr. Group's pricing
was very much out of line with
what the others were charging.
They were charging
horrendous amounts.
So long story short, my parents
said, "Hey, we'll pay for it.
Let's do it."
And so we started the
first part of February
with a full
detoxification program.
We started with liver,
gallbladder, and colon
cleansing using his
Oxy-Powder product.
And we did harmful
organism cleansing, which
would be parasite cleansing.
And the detoxification part of
the program was foundational.
And I did that throughout the
whole protocol off and on.
And we did cleansing.
I'm going to be looking
up and down a little bit,
'cause this was 20 years ago.
So I want to make sure
that I get everything.
We did heavy metal
cleansing also.
So his approach was a whole
body approach, a mind, body,
and spirit.
Of course, diet
was foundational.
I did vegetable juicing,
pancreatic enzymes,
and supplements.
I brought a bag of supplements
into my visit with him,
and I was pretty proud of what I
had been doing in the meantime.
And he took one look at them
and put them down on the floor.
And I thought, you
know, aren't those good?
But when I got on
the protocol, I
realized that we were
going to be doing much more
high-tech stuff than what I
could get at the local vitamin
store.
So it was very intense for
me, because I was not used
to doing anything like that.
But at the same
time, I didn't want
to do chemotherapy ever again.
And I told him that he could
tell me to stand on my head
three hours a day,
and I'll do it.
And I was very much--
it was a 24/7 thing.
And I did everything
he told me to do.
Part of the detoxification
that we did also,
we did emotional detoxification.
The diagnosis just really
hit me on my backside.
I was not expecting it,
as most people aren't.
And, you know, your mind just
runs with that kind of thing.
What if?
You know, what if I do?
What if I don't?
You know, people would
talk about, well, we're
going to do this next summer?
And I'd think, am I going
to be here next summer?
And very much of a
victim mentality.
And he was very good to realize
that I needed that help.
And so he would
recommend books for me,
and I would read them and
talk about negativity.
I tend to be that way anyway.
And so that was a real big
issue with me, to just,
you know, take
control of my mind
so that my body could heal.
>>SUE: Was there
a moment, Loretta,
that you made a decision?
Did you feel something
happen inside
of you that claimed something
in the process of all
these detoxifications and
changing your supplementation
and revamping how
you're thinking
and your emotional states?
Was there ever a
collective moment
where you felt yourself just
come home to yourself, just
come back together in some way
that shifted this path for you?
>>LANPHIER: Yeah,
there really was.
I mean, I was very guarded
about that kind of thing
to begin with.
Because even though I was very
much aboard what we were doing
and I wanted to do it, there was
still that mind going, what if?
What if?
I remember we had taken
a vacation in July
and gone to the Grand
Canyon, my husband and I.
We were walking
around, and I happened
to walk out on one of
those little jutted places
where you might feel
like you're on the edge.
And there were people out there.
And I'm not a high person,
and so I felt kind of safe
with them out there.
But I was looking around, and
I noticed everybody had left.
And I looked at the
vastness of the canyon.
It was in the evening.
The colors were coming out.
They were vibrant.
And I thought to myself, you
know, God, if you can do this,
you can certainly help
me heal from cancer.
And that was my moment.
I was starting to
allow myself to believe
that I could get
well, 'cause I wasn't
really sure that I could.
>>SUE: So, so beautiful.
Thank you so much
for sharing that.
I think it's a very
important thing for people
to recognize that when we just
accept the possibility that I
got this, I can do
this, that then things
can begin to change.
And until that happens,
it's a pretty tough thing.
Thank you so much for
sharing with us, Loretta.
>>LANPHIER: You're welcome.
>>SUE: Just one moment.
I want to ask Dr. Group, what
was the most important thing
that you would say
turned on Loretta's
self-healing mechanism?
What would you say
happened there?
>>GROUP: I think the
main thing with anybody
is the moment that they
have faith and hope.
I always talk about hope
and faith all the time.
And that's why it's so important
to educate and to help them
along the way to
where they really
can believe that they have
the power to heal themself.
Because in the standard
medical system,
they trust their doctor.
All of their hope and all of
their faith is on their doctor.
It's not on them.
And so I think that,
over the years,
the most pivotal point
with every patient
is the moment where
they actually believe
they can heal themselves.
>>SUE: And this is what
you're describing, Loretta.
>>LANPHIER: Absolutely.
If he told me that once, he
told me that a million times.
It was just difficult to--
it's like you're making a
commitment when you say, OK, I
know I can get well.
I know I'm going to get well.
And I was afraid to
make that commitment,
because what if it
wasn't right, you know?
I asked him and my husband
both a million times,
do you think I'm
going to get well?
And you know, I got to where
they just rolled their eyes,
'cause they knew I was coming.
But you know, I needed not
only to believe myself,
but I needed to know that Dr.
Group thought I could get well.
I needed to know that my husband
thought I could get well.
They were kind of holding me
up, if you know what I'm saying.
But then when I took
that step and started
to allow myself to believe
that I could get well--
and it came slowly.
And when I did get well, I
was well in seven months.
>>SUE: At the end of the day,
it was your own decision.
It was your decision
to get well.
It was your acceptance
of that possibility
is what you're saying.
Yeah.
OK, Loretta, here's the deal.
I'm a viewer at home.
I've got cancer.
I don't want to go
to chemotherapy.
through that radiation.
I don't want to have to
have that experience.
Please walk us
through exactly what
you did that allowed
this transformation
to happen in your life.
Just start from the beginning.
What did you do?
>>LANPHIER: OK.
Like I said before,
we did cleansing,
was the very foundational
part at the beginning--
liver, gallbladder flushing,
very, very important.
Digestive tract
cleansing, in my case--
well, in every cancer case--
that's going to be important.
I did that pretty much the
whole time through off and on.
Harmful organism cleansing,
parasite cleansing, and also
that would include
yeast cleansing,
which is a real issue right
now in so many health concerns.
Heavy metal cleansing--
if you've got amalgams
or if you've been around heavy
metals, that needs to happen.
The diet-- I did a lot of
juicing in the beginning.
In fact, my mealtime
at dinner was juice.
He put together a very
nutrient-dense juice
that I drank every night.
We used high-tech
supplementation.
I used ozonated water
and pancreatic enzymes.
And one more thing.
I did a lot of lymphatic
drainage techniques,
such as I went and got a
little round rebounder,
and I rebounded every day.
I started out at 3.5 minutes
in the morning and 3.5 minutes
in the evening.
That's all I could
handle at that point.
I was just coming
off of surgery.
And so eventually,
I built that up.
I did it every day,
morning and afternoon.
And finally, I got
to the point where
I was doing it almost an
hour and a half a day.
So also for that
lymphatic drainage,
I did skin brushing and
toxin removal baths also.
But one thing that
I did, too, is
that I went through our home,
and I removed everything
that I thought was
toxic in our home.
That included laundry--
so dishwasher detergent.
We got air filtration in the
rooms that we were in most.
We after the air filtration,
we also put some--
I don't even know--
some devices in for EMF
on our phones to make sure that
we weren't dealing with that.
I did not put my hands in any
chlorinated water, period.
Our toothpaste, our soaps,
our shampoos, everything
went in the trash.
Because I felt like that what
I had been doing in my life
obviously was not
conducive to health,
or I wouldn't have
been where I was.
I wouldn't have been diagnosed
with stage III colon cancer.
So I got interested
in aromatherapy.
We did that.
I also, every morning
when I got up,
there's a program called
the Mozart Effect.
There are CDs.
That is the Mozart's
music who it's
thought to be very healing.
So as I would be getting
dressed, I would put that on.
And I would listen to
that in the mornings
and a lot of times at night.
Dr. Group had a manual that he
gave that was a cancer survival
manual.
And in that manual,
there were scriptures.
There were affirmations.
There was prayers.
I did that at least twice a day.
I walked.
I got out in nature.
I got in the sun.
I destressed as
much as possible.
And one other thing,
too, that was important
was that, unfortunately, I
had to remove some friends,
because they were very
negative about what I was doing
and to the point where it
kind of would keep me upset
sometimes.
So I knew it
wouldn't be forever.
But it was just something
that had to be done.
And I didn't just go up
to them and say, you know,
"I can't be your
friend anymore."
I just didn't go
around them as much.
And so that helped also.
So I knew that if I
was going to do this,
I wanted to give it every
chance I could to work.
I didn't want to
be half-hearted.
>>SUE: You made a
radical decision.
>>LANPHIER: I did.
>>SUE: You got rid of everything
that wasn't supporting you.
>>LANPHIER: I was very serious.
>>SUE: And you changed
your entire way of living,
right down to wearing gloves
when you didn't used to
and getting rid
of your toothpaste
to just shucking everything
that didn't support you.
And you made a
decision for yourself
and began to be proactive in
creating the environment that
was going to help you heal.
Is that what I'm getting?
>>LANPHIER: That's
exactly right.
I was very serious about it.
And I know to a lot of people
I sounded very militant.
I got that, you know?
But I didn't care,
because it was my life.
>>SUE: Am I getting that
it was in the line of you
or in the light of you just
making a choice for yourself?
And so while it looked
militant from the outside,
it felt like a big
yes on the inside?
Is that what we're saying?
>>LANPHIER: Absolutely.
>>SUE: Because faith is amazing.
And you got into action
in relation to that.
>>LANPHIER: Absolutely, yeah.
I had done some reading
before we went to Dr. Group.
And as I was reading
about what people
had done who had healed from
cancer using natural medicine,
I would think, I can do that.
I can do that.
You know, I can do that.
And really, it does
sound militant.
But I want to tell you, when
you're fighting for your life,
and you're wanting to
do it without toxins,
and you're wanting to do
it to where you don't have
to worry about the future,
having heart disease
or anything like that, because
you did chemotherapy, it
was worth it to me.
I had to take a
couple of steps back.
And as a mom, you learn to think
of everybody else but yourself.
And I had to take some steps
back and say, this time
in my life, this short period
of time, I have to focus on me.
I have to be militant enough
to get well and to do it 24/7
until I am well, until
I hear those words.
And I prayed every night.
God, I just want
to hear your will.
And eventually--
>>SUE: Wow.
And what was your prognosis?
What was your prognosis
with stage III cancer?
>>LANPHIER: Well, they didn't
pronounce a prognosis over me
other than I asked my
oncologist point blank one day.
I said, "So what
are my chances?"
And I thought I
was ready to hear
a percentage, is what it was.
And he said, "Well, you have
a 30% chance of it not coming
back," which in my mind meant
I had a 70% chance of it coming
back, even doing this
horrendous chemotherapy.
That didn't make sense to me.
To me, it was not
common sense to continue
doing something that
was most likely not only
had the ability to take my
life but my immune system
and anything that
could help me get well,
that was the healing
mechanisms in my body.
And I've seen this over
and over with people.
They don't think
there's anything else
to do or to help them.
So they're willing to take
that huge percentage chance.
I wasn't willing to,
because I had no life.
Why live your life in
a recliner, you know?
Because if you move,
you're so nauseous,
you just cannot
do anything else.
And I know it was a--
don't get me wrong.
It was a huge step
out of the box for me.
I was ready to do it.
But at the same time, it was not
something that I was used to.
And when we finally
did it, and I finally
got into the protocol,
and I finally
started feeling better, looking
better, having energy and even
self-confidence, who
doesn't want that?
You know, who doesn't want that?
And it was just something
else to underline
to me that what I
was doing was what
I was supposed to be doing.
>>SUE: And here you are.
>>LANPHIER: And here I am--
>>SUE: Cancer-free?
>>LANPHIER: --20 years later.
>>SUE: 20 years later,
cancer-free, healthy.
>>LANPHIER: No recurrences.
>>SUE: Strong?
>>LANPHIER: Strong.
>>SUE: Loving your life?
>>LANPHIER: Love what I do.
Absolutely love it.
Dr. Group saw that I had
developed such an interest
for natural and
alternative medicine.
I mean, when I was
working with him,
I saw people walk in our office
downhearted with whatever
diagnosis they had at the
time, just not feeling good.
And just with a session with
him, they would walk out.
They had a little bit
of pep in their step,
if you know what I'm saying.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>LANPHIER: Because
he was giving
them hope that, yes,
you can get well.
>>SUE: Loretta, from the time
you started with Dr. Group
until the time that you were
cancer-free, what kind of frame
lapsed there?
How much time was
that in your life?
>>LANPHIER: So I was diagnosed
in September of 2000.
And I had surgery.
I did my four chemo treatments.
I saw a Dr. Group the first
week in February of 2001.
By the middle of August,
I was cancer free.
Now I would-- just let me say
this, because a lot of people
will say, "Well, you
did chemotherapy.
You had surgery.
That's why you're cancer-free."
After three months of
doing his protocol,
we did a test, a test for cancer
cells it measures in the blood.
Mine came back on
the low side of high.
And I was really disappointed,
because I thought, man, I'm
doing so much.
Why?
I was discouraged.
And so he got on the phone
with me, and I said, "Well,
what are we going to do?
What do we do now?"
I mean, I was
panicked, you know?
And I expected him to
say the same thing.
"Well, let me think about it."
You know what he said?
"We're going to keep
doing what we're doing."
And I thought, what?
And he said, "You know what?
I think your numbers
are going down."
Well, with my
negativity, you know,
I didn't even think about that.
I didn't think that
was a possibility.
And you know what?
He was right.
>>SUE: Thank you
so much, Loretta,
for sharing this amazing
insight into taking things
into your own hands
with the guidance
of some secure information
that is allowing
you to make smart choices to
claim healing in your own life.
I think that this will be a
wonderful help to lots and lots
of people.
>>LANPHIER: Thank you so
much for the opportunity.
>>SUE: Thank you for
your time, my dear.
That was amazing.
It was amazing.
Tell me, what is the
most common mistake
that people make when they're
trying to begin to detox?
What is it that
gets in people's way
from being successful
in this process?
>>GROUP: Just actually
their environment.
If they don't have
supportive friends,
if they don't have
supportive family members,
if they're not
educated enough as
to the process of the
detoxification program
that they're going through,
that can get in their way.
Work could get in their way.
It's hard for somebody to, first
of all, make that decision.
And that's, again,
why it's so important
to give those individuals
the hope and the faith
and the education as to what
to expect when they start
their detoxification program.
That's also why you start them
off slowly and methodically
when you're detoxifying them.
You know, you're going to
start them always with--
all disease starts in the gut.
All health begins in
the gut, you know?
And that's why you really
explain that to them.
You start them off in
that cleansing process.
But at the same
time, you're also
educating them
about how to change
their external
environment as well.
>>SUE: You know, I think this
is an important topic, this gut
health thing, 'cause there's
a lot of conversation
about leaky gut and
gut health, et cetera.
Can you just recap
that for us and just
drop it down for
people to really
be clear on, what
does gut health mean,
and how do I know
if I have it or not?
>>GROUP: So
interesting questions.
So we did a lot of
research on that
and found that there's got to
be something in the gut that's
controlling all of the
things and all of the systems
and all of the
pathways in the body.
And so we started looking at
the different areas of the gut.
And then we stumbled
upon the appendix.
Well, when we went to look at
the research on the appendix,
medical science still
says they don't even
know what the appendix is,
and they just rip it out
whenever it's inflamed.
We actually found research
from Germany and in Russia
that we had to have translated
that the appendix is actually
the brain in the body.
The appendix is about
the size of your pinky.
And we know now that the
appendix controls pH.
It's a relay station.
It's the analysis.
It's the microchip.
And why wouldn't the
microchip be located
in the intestinal tract, right?
That's where all your
water's coming in.
That's where all your minerals,
your vitamins, your nutrients,
your proteins, your fats.
I mean, that tells--
the appendix actually
gives and sends signals
to the lymphatic system, to
the cardiovascular system,
what nutrients are going to
be available to the brain.
So the appendix is a vital
part of how the intestines work
and how gut health is so
important, is that it really
is the starting point for how
everything else in the body
functions and operates.
>>SUE: So I study bioenergetics.
And one of the knowings is that
billions of bits of information
are bombarding our energy
field every millisecond,
and they don't report to the
brain, they report to the gut,
and that this information
is then translated up
through our filtering system
so that we become conscious
of this universal intelligence.
And what you're saying
on the physical level
is exactly the
same thing, that we
are transmitting and translating
information constantly.
And so now what do we
say to somebody who's
had their appendix removed?
What do we say to
this individual?
>>GROUP: Well, there's what
we call phantom appendix.
You know phantom limbs, where
you get your leg cut off,
and they can still feel
their feet, because it's
the energy signature?
It's the energy field
that's still there.
So in cases where people have
their gallbladder removed,
for example, or their
appendix removed,
we feel that you just need to
take more care of your gut.
You need to be aware of that.
The way the body
reads energy, you'll
still have that
there, as well as
if you have your
gallbladder taken out,
which I consider it part
of the digestive system,
then the liver will have
to take on excess work.
So it's more
important to just make
sure that you cleanse your liver
on a regular basis as well.
We found, actually-- we've done
hundreds of thousands of liver
cleanses over the
last 20 years--
that the majority of the
population right now,
their livers are only
functioning at about 15%.
This is how congested and
clogged people's livers
are with stones, with
flukes, with just congestion,
fatty tissue.
We're seeing non-alcoholic
fatty liver disease in kids
that are eating fatty diets.
So I mean, the liver is just--
it's such a vital
organ that needs to be
cleansed on a regular basis.
We've had testimonials of
individuals that have just
done nothing but liver cleanses
back to back-- done 15,
20 liver cleanses-- that their
conditions have completely
gone away.
And for that matter,
with all cleansing,
again, it's just getting the
body's self-healing mechanism
to operate again and removing
the amount of chemicals
and toxins that are
suppressing the body's
self-healing mechanism.
>>SUE: Exactly.
Boy, time goes so fast.
This is an amazing conversation.
I'm thrilled to be
having it with you.
Just one more thing.
What is the most exciting
thing that you're
working with right now?
Or what are you looking
forward to delving into more?
>>GROUP: Energetics.
I've been really involved in
the quantum energetic field
and studying Paracelsus' work.
I've been working on a project
for 10 years where we can
capture the energetics of
the herbs-- in other words,
do a raw herbal
extraction process--
and have, working
with Dr. Glen Rein,
who's now able to measure
quantum energy fields
and conductivity to a higher
level than Kirlian photography
would be.
But bringing a high
energetic compound
using combinations of
herbs or single herbs,
but doing it in a way
where you're taking
the plant as if Paracelsus did.
The thing is, people knew
about this kind of thing
a long time ago.
And it's just been
lost or suppressed.
Tesla knew a lot
about energetics.
I feel we're going into
a whole quantum energy
shift in consciousness and to
be able to infuse quantum energy
patterns as well in water.
We've been working on a
hydrofusion water system, where
we take a
triple-distilled water,
and we're able to infuse
it with light frequencies,
sound frequencies, as well as
any other type of frequencies
that someone might need.
Magnetics, working
with paramagnetics,
using paramagnetic
frequencies-- basically,
taking different
types of energy fields
or balancing out different type
of energy fields in the body,
however you want to do that.
But that's kind of the next
phase that we're looking into.
We're doing it with herbs.
Do I think it needs
to be done with herbs?
I think there's going to be
a point that we'll reach,
which is a lot of the basis
of what you've been doing
for a long time, where all
the successes that you've
had as well, where
we're teaching people
how to become aware.
We're teaching the
awareness, the consciousness,
how to become aware and
utilize the energies that they
currently have
within their systems.
>>SUE: Different use of the
mind, as you were saying,
the mind as our
most powerful tool.
So thank you so much for your
brilliance and your expertise
today.
It's been an amazing
conversation.
And we are blessed to
be awakened in every way
that we can.
And you're certainly serving
humanity in an amazing way.
>>GROUP: Well, thanks
for having me on.
It's a pleasure,
and it's an honor.
>>SUE: Thank you so much.
We all have the
ability to trigger
our own self-healing mechanism.
If we do at least one
thing to detox our lives,
we make a step forward in taking
back control of our health.
For more information about
the root cause of disease,
wellness, and
detox, please visit
www.globalhealingcenter.com.
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
Thank you for watching
"Healing Matrix."
[NEW AGE MUSIC]
[HEART BEATING]